Assemblyai is a deep learning company that builds powerful apis to help you transcribe and understand audio. The most common use case for the api is to automatically convert prerecorded audio and video files, as well as real time audio streams into text transcriptions. Our apis convert audio and video into text using powerful deep learning models that we research and develop end to end in house. Millions of podcasts, zoom recordings, phone calls, or video files are being transcribed with assemblyai every single day. But where assemblyai really excels is with helping you understand your data.
So let's say we transcribe Joe Biden's State of the Union using assembly. ai's api. With our Auto Chapter feature, you can generate time coded summaries of the key moments of your audio file. For example, with the State of the Union address, we get chapter summaries like this auto Chapters automatically segments your audio or video files into chapters and provides a summary for each of these chapters. With sentiment analysis, we can classify what's being spoken in your audio files as either positive, negative, or neutral.
So, for example, in the State of the Union address, we see that this sentence was classified as positive, whereas this sentence was classified as negative. Content Safety Detection can flag sensitive content as it is spoken, like hate speech, profanity, violence, or weapons. For example, in Biden's State of the Union address, content safety detection flags parts of his speech as being about weapons. This feature is especially useful for automatic content moderation and brand safety use cases. With Auto highlights, you can automatically identify important words and phrases that are being spoken in your data.
Owned by the State of the Union address, Assembly ai's api detected these words and phrases as being important. lastly, with entity detection, you can identify entities that are spoken in your audio, like organization names or person names. In Biden's speech, these were the entities that were detected. This is just a preview of the most popular features of assemblyai api. If you want a full list of features, go check out our api's documentation linked in the description below.
And if you ever need some support, our team of developers is here to help. Everyday developers are using these features to build really exciting applications. From meeting summarizers, to brand safety or contextual targeting platforms, to fullblown conversational intelligence tools, we can't wait to see what you build with assemblyai.
